README.md, before:

# diagnostics_exome_reporting
Pipeline to filter variant called format (vcf) files and generate a report document for clinical diagnostics.

# Current to-do list and fixes pending

  - [x] ~~GitHub repo requires ssh passphrase each use~~  
  - [x] ~~issue with grep using gene lists (files) and vcf.gz~~  
    + [x] ~~look into using tabix (MUCH faster)~~  
    + [x] ~~extract list of genes from a bed file (with position info), i.e. `grep -w -f 'gene_list.txt' UCSC_gene_positions_hg19.bed > gene_regions_hg19.txt`~~  
    + [x] ~~use: `tabix -R gene_regions.txt variant.vcf.gz`~~  
  - [x] ~~add a Shiny GUI to the front end~~  
  - [x] ~~create a configuration file to allow users to set paths to software and databases (temp)~~
  - [ ] remove all hard-coded paths (software, databases and directories)
    + [x] ~~remove from the main bash script (`WESdiag_pipeline_dev.sh`)~~
    + [ ] remove from `wes_vcffiltering.sh`
    + [ ] remove from `assess_variants.sh`
    + [ ] remove from `vcfcompiler_diagnostics.sh`
  - [ ] implement selection of genome build (currently only hg19 is working)
  - [x] ~~remove the xmessage checks (relies on having X11 environment installed, not ideal)~~
    + [x] ~~decide if we need to have user checks at these two locations~~
  - [x] ~~ensure the log files are being moved back into the correct location~~
  - [x] ~~overhaul Shiny script to allow hosting via Shiny Server~~ 
    + [x] ~~split into `ui.R` and `server.R`~~
    + [x] ~~add home directory variable to set location for data and scripts~~
    + [x] ~~test working when deployed remotely~~
  - [x] ~~added code to set working dir to main script location~~
  - [ ] add user defined option for the 3rd tier gene list
  - [ ] evaluate whether we need to continue to allow the user to define the 'home' dir
  - [ ] integrate docker branch (this is likely to address some/all above concerns)

Commit message:

updated to-do list in README.md, cleaning code base in bash scripts (removing hard-links, commenting)

README.md, after:

# diagnostics_exome_reporting
Pipeline to annotate and filter variant called format (vcf) files and generate a report document for clinical diagnostics. The variant annotation and filtering pipeline now uses a web server GUI implemented in R Shiny. 

# Current to-do list and fixes pending

  - [x] ~~GitHub repo requires ssh passphrase each use~~  
  - [x] ~~issue with grep using gene lists (files) and vcf.gz~~  
    + [x] ~~look into using tabix (MUCH faster)~~  
    + [x] ~~extract list of genes from a bed file (with position info), i.e. `grep -w -f 'gene_list.txt' UCSC_gene_positions_hg19.bed > gene_regions_hg19.txt`~~  
    + [x] ~~use: `tabix -R gene_regions.txt variant.vcf.gz`~~  
  - [x] ~~add a Shiny GUI to the front end~~  
  - [x] ~~create a configuration file to allow users to set paths to software and databases (temp)~~
  - [ ] remove all hard-coded paths (software, databases and directories)
    + [x] ~~remove from the main bash script (`WESdiag_pipeline_dev.sh`)~~
    + [ ] remove from `wes_vcffiltering.sh`
    + [x] ~~remove from `assess_variants.sh`~~
    + [x] ~~remove from `vcfcompiler_diagnostics.sh`~~
  - [ ] implement selection of genome build (currently only hg19 is working)
  - [x] ~~remove the xmessage checks (relies on having X11 environment installed, not ideal)~~
    + [x] ~~decide if we need to have user checks at these two locations~~
  - [x] ~~ensure the log files are being moved back into the correct location~~
  - [x] ~~overhaul Shiny script to allow hosting via Shiny Server~~ 
    + [x] ~~split into `ui.R` and `server.R`~~
    + [x] ~~add home directory variable to set location for data and scripts~~
    + [x] ~~test working when deployed remotely~~
  - [x] ~~added code to set working dir to main script location~~
  - [ ] add more extracted features to the `vcfcompiler_diagnostics.sh` script (i.e. CADD score)
  - [ ] add user defined option for the 3rd tier gene list
    + [ ] add integration with a self contained and user curated gene list repository 
  - [ ] evaluate whether we need to continue to allow the user to define the 'home' dir
  - [ ] integrate docker branch (this is likely to address some/all above concerns)
